feat(Caching): Cache across Hierarchy Keyring (#279)
awslabs/aws-encryption-sdk-specification: framework/aws-kms/aws-kms-hierarchical-keyring.md

Reviewer: Blocking:
- Bump the Version on line 8 to 0.2.0.
- Add a Changelog entry

Author: Thanks. Updated.

- MUST provide a [Keystore](../branch-key-store.md)
- MUST provide a [cache limit TTL](#cache-limit-ttl)
- MUST provide either a Branch Key Identifier or a [Branch Key Supplier](#branch-key-supplier)
- MAY provide a [Cache Type](#cache-type)
- MAY provide a [Partition ID](#partition-id)

If the Hierarchical Keyring does NOT get a `Shared` cache on initialization,
it MUST initialize a [cryptographic-materials-cache](../local-cryptographic-materials-cache.md)
with the user provided cache limit TTL and the entry capacity.
If no `cache` is provided, a `DefaultCache` MUST be configured with entry capacity of 1000.

### Cache Limit TTL

The maximum amount of time in seconds that an entry within the cache may be used before it MUST be evicted.
The client MUST set a time-to-live (TTL) for [branch key materials](../structures.md#branch-key-materials) in the underlying cache.
This value MUST be greater than zero.

### Cache Type

> Sets the cache bound OR the type of cache scoped (created & bound) to the Hierarchical Keyring.

Reviewer 2: this sentence is confusing

Author: Good point. It sounded different when this was first written. Thanks for bringing this up. This same documentation is in the smithy model for keyrings where the cache input is defined for the Hierarchical Keyring. I updated that and the spec here. Let me know if this updated explanation makes more sense.

By providing an already initialized `Shared` cache, users can determine the scope of the cache.
That is, when it is garbage collected or if the cache is bound to other Cryptographic Material Providers.
If any other type in `CacheType` is provided, the Hierarchical Keyring
will initialize a cache of that type, to be used with only this Hierarchical Keyring.
If not set, a `DefaultCache` is initialized to be used with only this Hierarchical Keyring with entryCapacity = 1000.

### Partition ID

A string that is used to avoid collisions with other Hierarchical Keyrings.
If this parameter is not set, the Hierarchical Keyring MUST set a partition ID

> that uniquely identifies the respective Hierarchical Keyring.

Reviewer 2: MUST be set to what?

Author: Updated. Thanks!

### Cache Limit TTL

The maximum amount of time in seconds that an entry within the cache may be used before it MUST be evicted.
The client MUST set a time-to-live (TTL) for [branch key materials](../structures.md#branch-key-materials) in the underlying cache.
This value MUST be greater than zero.

### Cache Type

Sets the type of cache for this Hierarchical Keyring. By providing an already initialized `Shared` cache,
users can determine the scope of the cache. That is, if the cache is shared across other Cryptographic Material Providers,
for instance other Hierarchical Keyrings or Caching Cryptographic Materials Managers (Caching CMMs).
If any other type of cache in the `CacheType` union is provided, the Hierarchical Keyring will initialize a
cache of that type, to be used with only this Hierarchical Keyring. If not set, a `DefaultCache` is initialized
to be used with only this Hierarchical Keyring with `entryCapacity` = 1000.

### Partition ID

An optional string that uniquely identifies the respective Hierarchical Keyring
and is used to avoid collisions with other Hierarchical Keyrings.

> PartitionId can be a String provided by the user, and in this case it MUST be interpreted as the bytes of
> UTF-8 Encoding of the String.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PartitionId can be a string provided by the user. If provided it MUST be interpreted as UTF8 bytes.
```

```
Caching_CMM : 0x01  (0001)
Hierarchical_Keyring : 0x02 (0010)
```

#### Scope Identifier

A Hex value that indicates if an element is used for Encryption, Decryption, Searchable Encryption, or some other future purpose.

```
Encrypt : 0x01 (0001)
Decrypt : 0x02 (0010)
Searchable Encryption : 0x03 (0011)
```

#### Partition ID

Partition ID is an optional parameter provided to the Hierarchical Keyring input, which distinguishes
Cryptographic Material Providers (i.e: Hierarchical Keyrings) writing to a cache.
It can either be a String provided by the user, which MUST be interpreted as the bytes of
UTF-8 Encoding of the String, or a v4 UUID, which SHOULD be interpreted as the 16 byte representation of the UUID.

Note: The cache will not know if the Partition ID is a String set by the user or the UUID.
The constructor of the Hierarchical Keyring MUST record these bytes at construction time.

Please see [Shared Cache Considerations](#shared-cache-considerations) on how to provide the
Partition ID and Logical Key Store Name while providing a Shared Cache to the Hierarchical Keyring.

#### Resource Suffix

> There are, at this time, 2 resource suffixes for the Hierarchical Keyring:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two resource suffixes for the Hierarchical Keyring:
```

| Null Byte              | 1              | `0x00`              |
| Scope ID               | 1              | bytes               |
| Null Byte              | 1              | `0x00`              |
| Partition ID           | Variable       | bytes               |
| Null Byte              | 1              | `0x00`              |
| Logical Key Store Name | Variable       | UTF-8 Encoded Bytes |
| Null Byte              | 1              | `0x00`              |
| Branch Key ID          | Variable       | UTF-8 Encoded Bytes |
| Null Byte              | 1              | `0x00`              |
| branch-key-version     | 36             | UTF-8 Encoded Bytes |

As a formula:

```
resource-id = [0x02]
scope-id = [0x02]
logical-key-store-name = UTF8Encode(keystore.LogicalKeyStoreName)
branch-key-id = UTF8Encode(hierarchicalKeyring.BranchKeyIdentifier)
branch-key-version = UTF8Encode(branchKeyVersion)
NULL_BYTE = [0x00]

ENTRY_ID = SHA384(
    resource-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + scope-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + partition-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + logical-key-store-name
    + NULL_BYTE
    + branch-key-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + branch-key-version
)
```

> ## Shared Cache Considerations

Reviewer 2: Let's also add here the detail about the shared access to materials

Author: I added a brief note mentioning this here. Thanks!

ENTRY_ID = SHA384(
    resource-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + scope-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + partition-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + logical-key-store-name
    + NULL_BYTE
    + branch-key-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + branch-key-version
)
```

## Shared Cache Considerations

If a user has two or more Hierarchical Keyrings with:

- Same Partition ID
- Same Logical Key Store Name of the Key Store for the Hierarchical Keyring
- Same Branch Key ID

then they WILL share the cache entries in the `Shared` Cache.

Any keyring that has access to the `Shared` cache MAY be able to use materials
that it MAY or MAY NOT have direct access to.

Users MUST make sure that all of Partition ID, Logical Key Store Name of the Key Store for the Hierarchical Keyring
and Branch Key ID are set to be the same for two Hierarchical Keyrings if and only they want the keyrings to share
cache entries.

Therefore, there are two important parameters that users need to carefully set while providing the shared cache:

### Partition ID

Partition ID is an optional parameter provided to the Hierarchical Keyring input,
which distinguishes Cryptographic Material Providers (i.e: Hierarchical Keyrings) writing to a cache.

> - (Default) If the Partition ID is not set by the user, it is initialized as a random 16-byte UUID, which makes
>   it unique for every Hierarchical Keyring. In this case, two Hierarchical Keyrings (or another Material Provider)
>   CANNOT share the same cache entries in the cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- (Default) A a random 16-byte UUID, which makes
  it unique for every Hierarchical Keyring. In this case, two Hierarchical Keyrings (or another Material Provider)
  CANNOT share the same cache entries in the cache.
```

- If the Partition ID is set by the user and is the same for two Hierarchical Keyrings (or another Material Provider),
  they CAN share the same cache entries in the cache.
- If the Partition ID is set by the user and is different for two Hierarchical Keyrings (or another Material Provider),
  they CANNOT share the same cache entries in the cache.

### Logical Key Store Name

> Note: Users MUST NEVER have two different physical Key Stores with the same Logical Key Store Name.

Logical Key Store Name is set by the user when configuring the Key Store for

> the Hierarchical Keyring. This is a logical name for the branch key store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Hierarchical Keyring. This is a logical name for the key store.
```

Author: Thanks for pointing this out! Fixed.
